# 🌐 HTTP-based Web Server
An HTTP web server that can handle multiple simultaneous requests from users. An HTTP **request** from a client is received, processed, and those results are sent back to the client as a **response**. HTTP requests consist of three substrings: request method (GET, HEAD, POST, etc.), request URL (separated by '/', treated as a relative path), and request version ('HTTP/x,y', where *x* & *y* are numbers).

### Program
A *C Language* based program that sends TCP commands/requests to an HTTP server. The web server returns the response back to the client.

## ⚙️ SETUP
#### Web server testing
  - Launch the HTTP server within a commonly used web browser (i.e. Chome, Firefox) and direct requests to the server, port number, and `index.html` file. Example: [http://localhost:3000/index.html](http://localhost:3000/index.html).

## 📟 USE
#### HTTP User (client) Commands
The request consists of three parts (separated by spaces):
1. method (GET, POST, HEAD)
2. URL (directory)
3. HTTP version
Example: `GET /Protocols/rfc1945/rfc1945 HTTP/1.1`

### Compiling
  Note: If zipped, first unzip file before proceeding.
  1. From root directory, run `make echoserver` from the terminal. This will generate a program called *echoserver* that is a simple server that responds back 'Hello World' in an h1 tag.
  2. To create the webserver, run `make` or `make webserver` to create a webserver executable object. Follow steps in next section for execution.
  3. `Make clean` will remove all files generated by `make`.

### Executing
  Once webserver objet is created, run `./webserver <PORT>` in the terminal/console from the root directory of the executable file. Next, go to a web-browser and go to `localhost:<PORT>`. This will direct to the default index.html page, where links can be requested and transferred from the server.  

#### Resources
1. [System Calls](http://codewiki.wikidot.com/c:system-calls:open)
2. [Graceful Exits](https://www.systutorials.com/catching-the-signal-sent-by-kill-in-c-on-linux/)